# PODHA MARKETING CAMPAIGN PROFITABILITY (2020-2022)

## Table of content
- [Project Background](#Project-Background)
- [Project Goals](#Project-Goals)
- [Data Structure](#Data-Structure)
- [Executive Summary](#Executive-Summary)
- [Insights deep dive](#Insights-deep-dive)
  - [Revenue by acquisition source](#Revenue-by-acquisition-source)
  - [Product Performance](#Product-Performance)
  - [Customer Performance](#Customer-Performance)
- [Recommendation](#Recommendation)
- [Data Limitation and caveat](#Data-Limitation-and-caveat)
- 
## Project Background

PODHA is an agro-company that specialize in services such as sales of Plants, Pots and Plant seeds and care. This analysis examines their sales data for sales years 2020-2022 and provides recommendation for the for the best marketing campaign among the existing marketing strategy: Google ads, Meta ads and You tube campaign. The company is seeking to cut down on marketing cost by sticking to only one campaign strategy and they want to make an informed decision on that.

## Project Goals

- Identify the most profitable marketing campaign.
- Analyze sales data to identify best selling and trending product.
- Segment customers into category and determine the high valued customers, Daily visitors and infrequent customers.

## Data Structure

The sales Data has a single table with a total row count of 55910

Check [Here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10oJeOxJrW3FhkxL_Ee6C0ftTv99GOFsg/view?usp=drivesdk) for the data file

## Executive Summary

Over the three sale-years (2020-2022), the greatest amount of Sales revenue came from Google ads marketing campaign (20M), with revenues from META ads and YT-campaign (3M and 2M respectively) trailing behind. To emphasize this most quantity of product ordered came from Google-ads.
Plant sales generate the highest revenue (24M) with Plants care & seed and POTS each having 1M in revenue generation
Key Performance indication showed an accrued revenue of 24M with an equivalent profit of 10M

The entire interractive dashboard can be downloaded [here](https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/reports/b4f0bcf8-34bc-40d4-92de-5508f30d4629/5d94fe3b8df6197e16b6?ctid=b12da6a8-b87a-4a20-bde6-27e439635339&experience=power-bi)



## Insights deep dive

### Revenue by acquisition source

- Over the three sales year, most revenue came from Google ads purchase with the highest in 2021 (7.1M).
- Trailing behind is the revenue generated from meta ads and Yt campaign with no significant difference between the two

### Product Performance 
- In 2021 sales year, 95.4% (8.7M) of the revenue came from Plant sale. This showed a stack difference between the revenue generated by Plant care & seed and Pots sale (3.1% and 1.45%) respectively
- In 2022 sales year, Plant sale also accounted for 94% (8.4M) of the total revenue

### Customer Performance
- An almost inverse relationship existed between revenue contribution by the customers and the number of services requested by them with the highest valued customers making fewer purchases than lower valued customers.
- To demonstrate this, Maurice chan  contributed a revenue of 12,399 with just 9 services requested while fernando Barnes with the highest number of services requested (64) contributed a revenue of 1,380.

## Recommendation
- If PODHA are to stick with just one campaign source, the most profitable is Google ads, not totally ignoring the revenue that come from other campaign source like Meta ads and Yt campaign

## Data Limitation and caveat
- **Data completeness:** There isnt any supporting Data as regard the cost spent on each marketing campaign  which could have painted a better picture on the Return on investment from each campaign source.
- **Data context:** Insights are based on synthetic Data and may not account for real world variables

## Conclusion




